Force and motion.
In this activity, the
students will use three different sized marbles to demonstrate how
a greater force applied will move a Cup further.
For this explore activity, students will need the following materials.
Preparation. Flip the Cup upside down and cut 1/2 circle
opening at the bottom of each Cup.
Each group will set up a ramp with the Cup
upside down on the ramp.
The Cup should be positioned at the lowest end of
the ramp.
Students will then predict in their Journal which marble will
move the Cup the longest distance and which one they
think will move it the shortest.
Groups will take turns placing each marble at the highest
point of the ramp and releasing it.
They will then place a sticker on the spot where
the Cup moved.
They will then measure the distance moved,
making sure to use a different color dot each time.
For differentiation, students can measure the distance in centimeters with
a ruler or with paperclips.
Repeat this process with each sized marble.
Using their student journals, students will record the distance moved
and sketch what happened to each of the three marbles.